👋 estebandezafra - Let's improve your plugin!

Thank you for submitting your plugin, "AI PatchWatch".

Our volunteer reviewers, tools, and/or AI aids identified issues in your plugin that require your attention.

We've pended your submission to give you a chance to review and fix these common issues.

This team handles approximately 1,500 plugin reviews each week. That's a lot. To make the most of this process, please do your part and help us help you; otherwise, your plugin won't be approved.

🤖 Please note that this message was generated using a combination of humans, algorithms, and AI in varying proportions. It may not have been reviewed by a human. All AI outputs are marked with the ✨ emoji. Pay attention to it, it's quite accurate.

Who are we?

We are a group of volunteers who help you identify common issues so that you can make your plugin more secure, compatible, reliable and compliant with the guidelines.

For consistency and better communication, your plugin review will be assigned to a single volunteer who will assist you throughout the entire review. However, response times may vary depending on how much time the volunteer is able to contribute to the team and if whether they need to consult something with the rest of the team.

The review process

A email envelope.

Please read this email in full and check each issue, as well as the links to the documentation and the provided examples. Also, search for any other similar occurrences of the same issue that are not explicitly mentioned in the email.
Make sure you understand the issues so that you can incorporate them into your existing skillset.
A plugin author fixing the issues.

If you decide to continue with the review process, you must fix any issues, test your plugin, upload a corrected version and then reply to this email.
In case of any doubt, please fix everything else and ask your questions alongside the update.
A volunteer reviewing the plugin.

Your plugin is manually checked by a volunteer who sends you the remaining identified issues in the plugin.
We will be devoting our time to reviewing your plugin, we ask that you honor this by following the instructions.
Note: Volunteers are not your QA team. They are here to help you identify and understand issues so that you can improve and maintain your plugin in the future. Fixing the issues is your responsibility.
A new review of the plugin.

If there are no further issues, the plugin will be approved 🎉
A warning.

Be brief and direct in your reply (please, avoid copy-pasting bloated AI responses, our AI is quite brief), be patient and make sure you have addressed all the issues and tested your plugin before responding.
It is disheartening to receive an updated plugin only to find that only a few issues have been resolved, or that it causes a fatal error upon activation.

When not making adequate progress in your review, it will be delayed and eventually rejected, for the sake of volunteers devoting their time and other plugin authors who correctly follow the review process. Once rejected under these circumstances, it will not be reviewed again.

Each volunteer can review up to 400 plugins per week, and they love to have life besides reviewing plugins, so please make things easier for us.


Understanding the Review Queue

When you reply, your plugin enters the review queue again. Fewer review cycles mean quicker approval, while multiple reviews can extend the process to weeks or months.
Tip: Carefully fix all issues and test your plugin before resubmitting to speed up approval.

This process is designed to help you improve your plugin while making the review experience faster and more efficient for everyone.


Have you read the guidelines and this plugin complies with them?

Upon submitting your plugin, you agreed and confirmed that it complies with the WordPress.org Plugin Directory Guidelines, which apply to all plugins in the directory.

Our automated tools have detected patterns that may require a closer look regarding compliance with certain guidelines. We will verify this during our manual review, but it's best to address any potential issues beforehand. In particular, please pay attention to the following:
Plugins should not hijack the admin dashboard. Upgrade prompts, notices, alerts, and the like must be limited in scope and used with moderation. (Guideline 11)

Please check it, and if you think everything is fine, do not worry. Our tools are very thorough and may highlight different things as potential issues.

Is the name of this plugin descriptive and distinctive, and does it respect the trademarks and project names of others?

Choosing a name for a plugin can be challenging - it needs to be distinctive and meaningful, but also carefully chosen to avoid overlapping with existing plugins or inadvertently use someone else's trademark or project name in a way that could lead to confusion.

📜 General plugin name/slug requirements
Plugin names and slugs must not be too generic; they should briefly describe what the plugin does.
Plugin names and slugs can be original and unique, even if they don't describe the functionality directly — as long as they are recognizable and distinctive.
Plugin names and slugs must be distinguishable from those of other plugins to avoid confusion.
Plugin names and slugs must respect others' trademarks and project names. If your plugin includes a trademark or project name that you do not own, you must clearly mention it in a way that denotes that there is no affiliation.

This plugin display name(s) is/are "AI PatchWatch" and the slug is "ai-patchwatch" . The AI has detected ✨ "PatchWatch" as potential trademark(s).

We asked a trained AI about common issues with plugin names and it thinks there might be a problem.
 ✨ The display name appears to use "PatchWatch," which looks like an existing project/product name in the same security space and does not appear related to the submitter. "AI" at the beginning is generic and does not make the name distinctive enough on its own.
For example, for your plugin:
An alternative name may be: ✨ Aipatch Security Scanner
An alternative slug may be: ✨ aipatch-security-scanner

ℹ️ These suggestions were made by the AI. Bear in mind that a skilled human, either you or a volunteer from the Plugin Review Team, may spot issues with the new suggested name.

⚠️ As with the rest of the review, you should address this issue and make any necessary changes. Simply changing the name without first checking what the issue is and how you can solve it won't help most of the time. Failure to address any of the issues raised will result in your submission being rejected for failing to demonstrate the expected level of effort in resolving the issues identified during the review process.

☑️ Steps to resolve this issue

Choose a display name and slug that is distinctive, describes your plugin or uses a unique name, while respecting others' trademarks and project names, (check for further details below) then:
Update the display name in both the readme file and plugin headers.
Update the slug in your plugin files, for example in the internationalization functions.
Reply to this email requesting a new slug reservation.
In addition to the changes you have made to your code, we also need to reserve and allocate the new slug that you have chosen for your submission.
Upload a new version via the "Add your plugin" page.
If you are confident that the new name is suitable, there is no need to wait for confirmation of the new slug reservation. You may see a warning regarding the 'Text Domain', as we haven't changed the slug on our side yet. That's fine.

Also, please, don't check just this names, there are other places or resources where you may not use any trademarked (or commonly recognized) terms in a manner that that is likely to cause confusion. This includes (but is not limited to):
Your username estebandezafra and your display name.
The plugin contributor's username and display name.
estebandezafra - Esteban
The URLs of this plugin.
Graphic resources such as this plugin icons and banners.

Are you the owner? If there are any issues with the trademark or project name and this is indeed an official plugin, it is likely that we have not been able to identify the current owner of the plugin as the trademark / project owner.
Keep in mind, if you were hired as a freelance developer or a consultant specifically to create this plugin, then they must own the plugin. Being granted permission is not enough. This is for their legal protection as well as yours. They can add you as a committer to the plugin so you can manage it from your account, but the owner must be them, not a temp-employee.

In order to solve this, you can do one of the following:
Prove that you legally have the right to the original name/slug.
Change your user email to an official one or provide us with the user account for an official owner to whom we should transfer the plugin (they can create a new account if they need to)

Note: Should you have this plugin approved with the correct name and then go back to infringement of trademarks, we will close your plugin. Please don't do this, even if you see other people 'getting away with it.' We have a lot of plugins and we're contacting everyone in small batches to be manageable. They won't get away with it forever, and they risk being banned from the directory. Which no one wants.

ℹ️ Tips on choosing a suitable name (and avoiding back-and-forth in this process).

Choosing a name for a plugin can be challenging - it needs to be distinctive and meaningful, but also carefully chosen to avoid overlapping with existing plugins or inadvertently use someone else's trademark or project name in a way that could lead to confusion.

🔍️ Avoid Name Similarity

In this context, by "similar" we mean something that goes beyond a letter-by-letter or word-by-word comparison. We also look into similar naming patterns, lookalike names or meanings.
You must ensure that the name of your plugin is distinctive and does not cause confusion with others.

How can you check this? Easy!
Perform a search engine query for the plugin name (Google, DuckDuckGo, Bing, ChatGPT) and parts of it.
If you find other plugins with "similar" names, change your plugin's name to something more distinctive and that won't cause confusion.
Go back to step 1 and check again, just in case.

❌ Changing the plugin name by adding a additional letter or a generic word (Advanced, Simple, etc) will probably not solve this problem at all.
✅ Your plugin name has to clearly stand out from other's plugins. You could try adding a coined term, your personal brand or a unique identifier at the beginning of the name. We rely on your creativity!

⚖️ Avoid Trademark / Project Names Confusion

Identify trademarks and project names mentioned in your plugin name "AI PatchWatch"and the slug "ai-patchwatch" . The AI has detected ✨ "PatchWatch" as potential trademark(s).

To avoid potential misuse:
If a trademark or project name is used at the beginning of your plugin name/slug and you are not the owner, it could imply false affiliation.
If the trademark appears elsewhere in the name/slug but is not part of a clear structure indicating unaffiliation, it may still be problematic.
Do not use any altered forms of a trademark, such as blend words or portmanteaus.

A safer naming pattern is to place the trademark at the end, following a phrase like "for" or "with".

👀 Examples

Assuming you are creating a plugin that integrates with WooCommerce and you are not WooCommerce:
❌ "WooCommerce Prices Updater" Trademarks issue as it implies affiliation with WooCommerce.
❌ "Prices Updater WooCommerce" Trademarks issue as it lacks a clear structure indicating no affiliation.
❌ "Prices for WooCommerce" It is too generic.
❌ "Prices for WooCommerce by estebandezafra". This plugin's distinguishing term shouldn't go at the end. It should be at the beginning.
❌ "AB Prices for WooCommerce". The term that distinguishes this plugin should be clearly differentiating, adding a few letters is not enough.
❌ "PricesPress for WooCommerce" This is considered portmanteau using the WordPress trademark.
❌ "Prices Updater for WooCommerce" Regarding trademarks it avoids indicating affiliation. However, there is a similarity issue, as there are other plugins with similar names.
❌ "Easy Prices Updater for WooCommerce" Similarity issue: Adding a generic word to avoid similarity won't make it sufficiently distinguishable.
✅ "Priconix Sync for WooCommerce" Ok! Original, distinguishable, unique name that is also not in use by others.
✅ "estebandezafra Prices Updater for WooCommerce" Ok! as it includes a unique identifier and clarifies unaffiliation (Ask ChatGPT)



Have you checked for common technical issues?

Please ensure that your plugin adheres to best practices, including the following:

🔴 Use Prefixes for declarations, globals and stored data

ℹ️ Why it matters: Prefixing avoid naming collisions with other themes, plugins, or WordPress core functions.
A prefix is a string placed in front of a name to avoid collisions. It must be at least 4 characters long, feel distinct and unique to the plugin (do not use common words), and be separated by an underscore or dash.
Please check the official WordPress docs on avoiding name collisions.

🔍 Identify not prefixed names: Look for any name that is used in a place where it can create a collision.
Type of element
Affected elements
Declarations
Functions, classes, etc (if not under a namespace)
Globals
Global variables, namespaces, define() .
Data storage
update_option() , set_transient() , update_post_meta() , etc.
WordPress declarations
add_shortcode() , register_post_type() , add_menu_page() , wp_register_script() , wp_localize_script() , add_action( 'wp_ajax_...' ) , etc.

If the defined name for that is not prefixed, that's a potential issue! 🕵️

🛠 Fix it: Always prefix those names, for example if your plugin is called "AI PatchWatch" then you could use names like these:
function aipa_save_post(){ ... }
class AIPA_Admin { ... }
update_option( 'aipa_options', $options );
register_setting( 'aipa_settings', 'aipa_user_id', ... );
define( 'AIPA_PLUGIN_DIR', plugin_dir_path( __FILE__ ) );
global $aipa_options;
add_action('wp_ajax_aipa_save_data', ... );
namespace estebandezafra\aipatchwatch;



👉 Your next steps

This is your checklist:
Have you read the guidelines and this plugin complies with them?
Is the name of this plugin descriptive and distinctive, and does it respect the trademarks and project names of others?
Have you checked for common technical issues?

If there is something that needs to be fixed, please take your time, fix it and update your plugin files at the "Add your plugin" page, while being logged in with your account "estebandezafra".
Please be concise and do not list the changes done — we will review the entire plugin again — but do share any clarifications or important context you want us to know.

If after checking the list and do the changes you feel that everything is right or need further clarification, please reply to this email and a volunteer will assist you.

If you believe there is a requirement you cannot accomplish and choose not to make changes, your plugin submission will be rejected after three months.

Thanks!

By taking these steps, you're helping the Plugin Review Team work more efficiently — meaning your plugin (along with the thousands of others in the queue) can be reviewed faster. 🚀 We really appreciate your contribution!

Disclaimers

If, at any time during the review process, you wish to change your permalink (aka the plugin slug) "ai-patchwatch", you must explicitly and clearly tell us what you would like it to be. Just changing it in your code and in the display name is not sufficient. Remember, permalinks cannot be altered after approval.
This email was partially auto-generated, so please be aware that some information might not be entirely accurate. No personal data was shared with the AI during this process. If you notice any obvious errors or something seems off, feel free to reply — we'll be happy to take a closer look and readjust this automation.

Review ID: AUTOPREREVIEW ❗TRM ai-patchwatch/estebandezafra/9Apr26/T1 9Apr26/3.9.1RC1 (P0TDX296440HGN)


--
WordPress Plugins Team | plugins@wordpress.org
https://make.wordpress.org/plugins/
https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/wordpress-org/detailed-plugin-guidelines/
https://wordpress.org/plugins/plugin-check/